>> Welcome to
House of Wellbeing.
You're listening to the
Period-Pain Hypnotherapy audio.
In a moment, the hypnosis will
begin, but before it does,
I'd like to remind you that
the following audio contains
powerful hypnotic suggestions
that aim to help you reach
a deep level of relaxation.
So please, be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and comfortable
place, free from distractions,
where you can fully
relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you, and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart
from close your eyes,
relax, lie back, and let go.
And enjoy all those peaceful
feelings and all the benefits
that come with it.
I'd like you to take
in a very deep breath
slowly inhaling, filling
your lower and upper lungs,
and exhaling again, allowing
your lungs to deflate naturally
and slowly.
And once you've done that,
I'd like you, once again,
to take in a deep breath,
filling your lungs.
And when you're ready,
allow that breath
to slowly release as you
exhale gently and powerfully.
And now you can
allow your breathing
to return to normal, your
normal breathing pace--
gentle breaths in and out,
as you normally would.
And as you relax, you're
aware of your eyes,
of how comfortable they
feel, closed and relaxed,
totally at ease.
And I'd like you now to
focus only on my words,
and nothing else bothers
or concerns you at all.
This is your time, and no
one needs or wants anything
from you.
Putting everything
else aside, I'm
going to draw your attention
to various parts of your body.
And as I draw your attention
to that part of your body,
you can allow each part
to relax and to release,
each muscle and nerve,
every part of it,
as I refer to it in turn.
So let's first focus
on your fingers,
and your hands, your
wrists, your forearms,
and your upper arms.
And as you think about
this part of your body,
I'd like you to be aware of
any tension in those muscles
and concentrate on that tension.
And now as you allow those
muscles to relax and release,
every nerve, every fiber
in your hands, your wrists,
and fingers, arms--
allow that tension
to flow away now,
to drain down, allowing the
muscles to rest and release.
Lengthen and loosen.
Feel your arms become heavier
as they release completely.
I'd like you now to
concentrate your attention
on your feet, your ankles,
your calves, your knees,
and the large muscles
of your thighs,
aware of any tension
in those muscles.
And as you concentrate
on them, you
can relax every muscle, every
fiber in your legs and feet,
allowing all of attention
to fade away now,
as you drift deeper into
relaxation, muscles loosening
and lengthening as the muscles
relax and release now, legs
feeling heavy as you
release completely.
Aware now of your chest,
your lower-back muscles,
your stomach muscles, your
upper back and upper chest,
notice how all the muscles
in this part of your body
are now becoming more
and more relaxed,
loosening and lengthening
as each muscle releases
and tension drains away now.
Now allow your shoulders to
sink into the frame of your body
as you sink into relaxation.
All the little muscles
in your neck and scalp,
aware of the tension
here, and now, you
can release that
tension as every muscle
in this part of your body
becomes more and more
relaxed so that you can
feel each and every muscle
in your body now
loose and limp as
that comfortable
heaviness continues now.
And whilst you're
relaxing in this way,
I'd like you now to
use your imagination
to think about a
beautiful summer's day.
I'd like you to
imagine that you're
floating on a cloud so
peaceful and so quiet.
You feel safe and secure,
and you enjoy the serenity
and peace as you
float and drift,
feeling so comfortable and calm.
You're completely at ease,
and every muscle and nerve
in your entire body's
completely relaxed
as you go deeper and
deeper into relaxation now.
And I wonder if you can
allow yourself to sink deeper
into relaxation now as I
count from one down to three.
And as I reach the
number three, you
can allow yourself to have
drifted much, much deeper
than you've ever been.
So 1, your entire body's
completely released now,
every muscle, every
nerve, and every fiber
relaxed and at ease, your entire
body feeling completely relaxed
and comfortably heavy now, and
to your head feeling so heavy
now.
And it's a really
pleasant feeling,
and you feel safe and
secure, and you're
enjoying this state
of deep relaxation
as you fall further and
further into relaxation now.
And you're now deeper than
you've ever been, so deeply
relaxed that every
word I utter to you
will sink into your
subconscious mind
and create some powerful changes
as you sink deeper and deeper--
mind alert, but body
totally relaxed now.
Now that you are in a
deeply relaxed state,
I'm going to talk
about menstrual pains.
And we know that
those are feelings
when your uterus or womb
contract to shed its lining.
And it's quite amazing, but for
some, it can be very painful.
So today, I'm going
to guide you and help
you find ways to loosen up
those muscles, to aid that pain
relief and give you
a lot more comfort.
Perhaps you start by
exercising and stretching more,
as you know that this
loosens up your muscles
and helps to provide the
period pain relief needed.
Maybe you've tried
rubbing your lower
tummy to relax the muscles,
helping to ease the pain,
or perhaps taking a warm bath,
or finding a hot-water bottle.
You know that heat
goes a long way
to reducing the effects
of your menstrual pains.
You know that all pain, no
matter how the pain originated,
is comprised of some
muscle-tension component
because the natural
tendency of the body
is to hold the painful
part rigid and still.
And whilst that may
help, at the same time,
it will also contribute
to some sort of pain.
So by relaxing, as
you are right now,
you'll find yourself much more
comfortable, much more at ease.
And the more you listen to
this audio, the more comfort
you'll find from it.
I'd like you now to think of a
painful sensation or discomfort
in your body as a color.
Maybe it's a deep
blue or a purple.
Perhaps that's your
favorite color.
But it represents discomfort.
Now that color that
you've imagined--
I'd like you to imagine that
each time you have a pain,
you're breathing out tension,
you're breathing out discomfort
in the form of a vapor,
the color of your tension.
With each breath
you take, you're
breathing in comfort
and relaxation.
And with every
exhalation, you're
blowing away some
of that tension
in the form of this vapor.
As the vapor leaves
your body, so, too,
does the pain you feel inside.
And as it drifts away
each time, you're
left feeling more and
more comfortable, more
and more relaxed.
Perhaps you want to try
a breathing technique
to help push the pain
way, breathing in
for four, holding for four, and
slowly breathing out for six.
And when you breath out
for six, the tension
leaves your body in the
color vapor you imagine.
So let's do this
now, breathing in
for four, hold for
four, and out for six,
feeling peace, comfort,
harmony, and warmth now.
You also know that the
more we focus on discomfit,
the more discomfort we feel.
So one of the best tools you
have is to distract yourself.
I'd like you to imagine yourself
in a special place of safety
and comfort.
You no longer focus
on the discomfort.
Instead, you take yourself
away to the special place
of safety and comfort.
Perhaps it's in a bed
on Sunday morning,
either by yourself or
perhaps with a partner.
Or maybe wrapped up
warm in a heavy blanket,
cozy and safe,
comfortable, and at ease.
Or maybe you feel
happier, more comfortable,
more at ease in a beautiful
garden or in the sunshine.
Have a think now as to where
your special place of comfort
may be.
Try to make it as
real as possible.
What can you hear?
What can you smell?
Who's with you?
What can you touch?
Create this lovely, safe,
comfortable place now
in your mind.
And every time you feel any
sensations or discomfort,
I'd like you to
take yourself off
to this special place
of safety, no longer
focusing on any discomfort,
instead, distracting your mind,
going off to your special
place of safety and comfort.
I'd also like you to start
practicing placing your thumb
and forefinger together
each time you take yourself
to your special
place of comfort.
This technique is
called anchoring.
We want to anchor the feelings
of calmness and relaxation
when you think of
that special place
by touching your thumb
and forefinger together.
The more you practice
this, the more
you're creating a
conditioned response
to this action of
thumb and finger
so that after a few
times of repeating
this action with your beautiful,
detailed visualization,
you generate a
conditioned response.
You've formed an
association now.
You immediately
feel the emotions
of calm, peace, and comfort
when you place your thumb
and forefinger
together, giving you
immediate relief, immediate
easing of any menstrual pain
or sensations, relaxing your
body, relaxing your muscles,
allowing any pain to wash
over you, to flow over you now
as you breathe
through it, perhaps
using the 4-6 technique.
Remembering that the more you
practice placing your thumb
and forefinger together
whilst visualizing
your special place of
safety, the more you're
compounding that anchoring.
You're building
that association so
that every time you feel
discomfort, all you have to do
is place your thumb and
forefinger together,
and all the feelings of calm and
relaxation come flooding back.
This may take practice,
but after doing
this just a few
times, you'll start
to build that association.
The more you practice
that technique,
the more you're
compounding that anchoring,
compounding those feelings
of calm and comfort.
And the more you
listen to this session,
the more you're
teaching your mind
to ease any sensations
through breathing out
tension and numbing
the area of pain,
and you're excited to feel
so much more comfortable.
You notice you have
much more energy,
you feel happier, feel
much more in control,
as you know how to manage any
sensations calmly and quickly.
Each time your
cycle comes again,
you feel more in control,
much more relaxed, calm
and confident that you
can manage your pain,
get on with your day,
live a normal life,
and have the tools
you need to relax,
letting your muscles lengthen
and listen, breathing out pain
easily and effectively.
These hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind,
and they'll become
more and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count from one up to five
to awaken you.
And at the count of five, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling
fantastic, feeling confident,
knowing that
whatever happens, you
have the resources within
you now to cope and manage
with any situation,
bringing back now
all the wonderful new feelings
with 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Eyes open when you're ready.